Add inital content for Azure & GCP Serverless templates (#1994)
pulumi/pulumi-hugo: themes/default/content/templates/serverless-application/azure/index.md

---
title: "Azure Serverless Application"
layout: template

# Make sure this is description accurate for this template.
meta_desc: The Azure Serverless Template makes it easy to deploy a serverless application on Azure with Pulumi, Azure Functions, and Azure Blob Storage.

# Appears on the cards on template-overview pages.
card_desc: Deploy a serverless application on Azure with Pulumi, Azure Functions, and Azure Blob Storage.

# Used for generating language-specific links to templates on GitHub. (Example: `static-website-aws`)
template:
    prefix: serverless-azure

# Used for generating links to sibling templates in the right-hand nav. Slug is this template's parent directory.
cloud:
  name: Azure
  slug: azure

> # Be sure to replace this image. Figma source file:
> # https://www.figma.com/file/lGrSpwbGGmbixEuewMbtkh/Template-Architecture-Diagrams?node-id=15%3A196

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

meta_image: meta.png

> # The content below is meant help you get started and to serve as a guide to work by. Feel free to adjust it needed for your template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---

> The Serverless Application template creates an infrastructure as code project in your favorite language that deploys a serverless application to Azure. It deploys an [Azure Storage Blob account]({{< relref "/registry/packages/azure-native/api-docs/storage/storageaccount" >}}) that's configured with a [container for static website hosting]({{< relref "/registry/packages/azure-native/api-docs/storage/storageaccountstaticwebsite" >}}) and an [Azure function]({{< relref "/registry/packages/azure-native/api-docs/web/webappfunction" >}}) that runs the business logic, which is written in the same language as the template. The application uses an [App Service plan]({{< relref "/registry/packages/azure-native/api-docs/web/appserviceplan" >}}) by default. The template ships with a placeholder website that displays the current time to give you a working Pulumi project out of the box that you can customize easily and extend to suit your needs.

Reviewer: This first paragraph's starting to feel a bit wall-of-texty to me. Could we remove the "in your favorite language" bit? I'm not sure it's really adding all that much value here (you can see the actual list of supported languages a few lines down), and in general I'd like for this first paragraph to be lean and scannable:

```suggestion
The Serverless Application template creates an infrastructure as code project that deploys a serverless application to Azure with Pulumi. It deploys an [Azure Blob Storage account]({{< relref "/registry/packages/azure-native/api-docs/storage/storageaccount" >}}) configured for [static website hosting]({{< relref "/registry/packages/azure-native/api-docs/storage/storageaccountstaticwebsite" >}}) and an [Azure Function]({{< relref "/registry/packages/azure-native/api-docs/web/webappfunction" >}}) written in the same language as the Pulumi program. The template ships with placeholder content to give you a working project out of the box that you can customize easily and extend to suit your needs.
```

Also suggest removing the line about app-service plans, as I don't believe you _can_ deploy an Azure Function App without one (so probably not worth calling out -- at least not in this first paragraph).

> ![An architecture diagram of the Pulumi $CLOUD $ARCHITECTURE template](./architecture.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![An architecture diagram of the Pulumi Azure Serverless Application template](./architecture.png)
```

## Using this template

To use this template to deploy your own serverless application, make sure you've [installed Pulumi]({{< relref "/docs/get-started/install" >}}) and [configured your Azure credentials]({{< relref "/registry/packages/azure/installation-configuration#credentials" >}}), then create a new [project]({{< relref "/docs/intro/concepts/project" >}}) using the template in your language of choice:

> {{% chooser language "typescript,python,go,csharp" / %}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% chooser language "typescript,python,go,csharp,yaml" / %}}
```

{{% choosable language typescript %}}

```bash
$ mkdir my-serverless-app && cd my-serverless-app
$ pulumi new serverless-azure-typescript
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language python %}}

```bash
$ mkdir my-serverless-app && cd my-serverless-app
$ pulumi new serverless-azure-python
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language go %}}

```bash
$ mkdir my-serverless-app && cd my-serverless-app
$ pulumi new serverless-azure-go
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language csharp %}}

```bash
$ mkdir my-serverless-app && cd my-serverless-app
$ pulumi new serverless-azure-csharp
```

> {{% /choosable %}}

Reviewer: I can't seem to get GitHub to add this block as a suggestion, but if you copy these lines and add paste them as a new block starting on 73 (so there's an empty line before and after it), then change the two `csharp` references in the new block to `yaml`, you'll get a working YAML option also.

Follow the prompts to complete the new-project wizard. When it's done, you'll have a complete Pulumi project that's ready to deploy and configured with the most common settings. Feel free to inspect the code in {{< langfile >}} for a closer look.

## Deploying the project

The template requires no additional configuration. Once the new project is created, you can deploy it immediately with [`pulumi up`]({{< relref "/docs/reference/cli/pulumi_up" >}}):

```bash
$ pulumi up
```

When the deployment completes, Pulumi exports the following [stack output]({{< relref "/docs/intro/concepts/stack#outputs" >}}) values:

> originURL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
siteURL
```

: The HTTP URL of the static website.

apiURL
: The HTTP URL of the serverless function endpoint.

> Output values like these are useful in many ways, most commonly as inputs for other stacks or related cloud resources. The computed `originURL`, for example, can be used from the command line to open the newly deployed website in your favorite web browser:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Output values like these are useful in many ways, most commonly as inputs for other stacks or related cloud resources. The computed `siteURL`, for example, can be used from the command line to open the newly deployed website in your favorite web browser:
```

```bash

> $ open $(pulumi stack output originURL)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ open $(pulumi stack output siteURL)
```

```

## Customizing the project

> Projects created with the serverless template expose the following [configuration]({{< relref "/docs/intro/concepts/config" >}}) settings:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Projects created with the Serverless Application template expose the following [configuration]({{< relref "/docs/intro/concepts/config" >}}) settings:
```

> www_path

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sitePath
```

: The path to the folder containing the files of the website. Defaults to `www`, which is the name (and relative path) of the folder included with the template.

> api_path

Reviewer: ```suggestion
appPath
```

> : The path to the folder containing the files of the serverless function. Defaults to `api`, which is the name (and relative path) of the folder included with the template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: The path to the folder containing the serverless functions to be deployed. Defaults to `app`, which is also included with the template.
```

> index_document

Reviewer: ```suggestion
indexDocument
```

: The file to use for top-level pages. Defaults to `index.html`.

> error_document

Reviewer: ```suggestion
errorDocument
```

: The file to use for error pages. Defaults to `error.html`.

> All of these settings are optional and may be adjusted either by editing the stack configuration file directly (by default, `Pulumi.dev.yaml`) or by changing their values with [`pulumi config set`]({{< relref "/docs/reference/cli/pulumi_config_set" >}}) as shown below.
> 
> ### Using your own web content
> 
> If you already have a serverless application you'd like to deploy on Azure with Pulumi, you can do so either by replacing placeholder content in the `www` folder or by configuring the stack to point to another folder on your computer with the `www_path` setting:
> 
> ```bash
> $ pulumi config set www_path ../my-existing-website/build
> $ pulumi up
> ```

Reviewer: This might be technically _okay_, but it won't really work with your own web content unless you write the front-end JS code to call the serverless function. So it might be better either to exclude this section for now or to add the relevant front-end details.

I'd probably suggest omitting for now; otherwise, the user would change the config, run Pulumi, and then be left wondering what to do next. I'd be happy to write this content for you as a follow-up if you want to file an issue for it, though.

```suggestion
All of these settings are optional and may be adjusted either by editing the stack configuration file directly (by default, `Pulumi.dev.yaml`) or by changing their values with [`pulumi config set`]({{< relref "/docs/reference/cli/pulumi_config_set" >}}).

```bash
$ pulumi config set sitePath ../my-existing-website/build
$ pulumi up
```
```

## Tidying up

You can cleanly destroy the stack and all of its infrastructure with [`pulumi destroy`]({{< relref "/docs/reference/cli/pulumi_destroy" >}}):

```bash
$ pulumi destroy
```

## Learn more

Congratulations! You're now well on your way to managing a production-grade serverless application on Azure with Pulumi --- and there's lots more you can do from here:

* Discover more architecture templates in [Templates &rarr;]({{< relref "/templates" >}})
* Dive into the Azure Native package by exploring the [API docs in the Registry &rarr;]({{< relref "/registry/packages/azure-native" >}})

> * Expand your understanding of how Pulumi works in [Pulumi Learn &rarr;]({{< relref "/learn" >}})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Expand your understanding of how Pulumi works in [Learn Pulumi &rarr;]({{< relref "/learn" >}})
```

---
title: "Azure Serverless Application"
layout: template

# Make sure this is description accurate for this template.
meta_desc: The Azure Serverless Template makes it easy to deploy a serverless application on Azure with Pulumi, Azure Functions, and Azure Blob Storage.

# Appears on the cards on template-overview pages.
card_desc: Deploy a serverless application on Azure with Pulumi, Azure Functions, and Azure Blob Storage.

# Used for generating language-specific links to templates on GitHub. (Example: `static-website-aws`)
template:
    prefix: serverless-azure

# Used for generating links to sibling templates in the right-hand nav. Slug is this template's parent directory.
cloud:

>   name: Azure

Reviewer: These links get used on the right-hand side and are the full names -- "Amazon Web Services", "Microsoft Azure", "Google Cloud Platform":

```suggestion
  name: Microsoft Azure
```

---
title: "Azure Serverless Application"
layout: template

# Make sure this is description accurate for this template.
meta_desc: The Azure Serverless Template makes it easy to deploy a serverless application on Azure with Pulumi, Azure Functions, and Azure Blob Storage.

# Appears on the cards on template-overview pages.
card_desc: Deploy a serverless application on Azure with Pulumi, Azure Functions, and Azure Blob Storage.

# Used for generating language-specific links to templates on GitHub. (Example: `static-website-aws`)
template:
    prefix: serverless-azure

# Used for generating links to sibling templates in the right-hand nav. Slug is this template's parent directory.
cloud:
  name: Azure
  slug: azure

# Be sure to replace this image. Figma source file:
# https://www.figma.com/file/lGrSpwbGGmbixEuewMbtkh/Template-Architecture-Diagrams?node-id=15%3A196
meta_image: meta.png

# The content below is meant help you get started and to serve as a guide to work by. Feel free to adjust it needed for your template.
---

> The Azure Serverless Application template deploys a serverless application on Azure with Pulumi. It deploys an [Azure Storage Blob account]({{< relref "/registry/packages/azure-native/api-docs/storage/storageaccount" >}}) that's configured with a [container for static website hosting]({{< relref "/registry/packages/azure-native/api-docs/storage/storageaccountstaticwebsite" >}}) and an [Azure function]({{< relref "/registry/packages/azure-native/api-docs/web/webappfunction" >}}) that runs the business logic. The application uses an [App Service plan]({{< relref "/registry/packages/azure-native/api-docs/web/appserviceplan" >}}) by default. The template ships with a placeholder website that displays the current time to give you a working Pulumi project out of the box that you can customize easily and extend to suit your needs.

Reviewer 2: I thought we were going with this wording about deploying the IaC project. If so, we should update the AWS serverless one as well

> The Container Service template creates an infrastructure as code project in your favorite language that deploys a container service to AWS.

Reviewer 2: > The AWS Serverless Application template deploys a serverless website to AWS that displays the current time. It deploys an [Amazon S3 bucket](https://www.pulumi.com/registry/packages/aws/api-docs/s3/bucket/) for hosting a static website, deploys an [AWS Lambda function](https://www.pulumi.com/registry/packages/aws/api-docs/lambda/function/) that runs the business logic, and an [Amazon API Gateway REST API](https://www.pulumi.com/registry/packages/aws/api-docs/apigateway/restapi/) that routes requests to HTML content and the Lambda function. The template ships with a placeholder website that displays the current time to give you a working Pulumi project out of the box that you can customize easily and extend to suit your needs.

The AWS one also seems more specific about what is the application being deployed and how the different components work together, more specifically how the blog account and the storage container are doing (i think its holding the static components).

Author: @cnunciato could you update the helper with the new boilerplate intro description language per above?

Author: i updated the first sentence description. i don't see a major difference between how the aws and azure ones have been written, so i've left it as is

### Using your own web content

If you already have a serverless application you'd like to deploy on Azure with Pulumi, you can do so either by replacing placeholder content in the `www` folder or by configuring the stack to point to another folder on your computer with the `www_path` setting:

```bash
$ pulumi config set www_path ../my-existing-website/build
$ pulumi up
```

## Tidying up

You can cleanly destroy the stack and all of its infrastructure with [`pulumi destroy`]({{< relref "/docs/reference/cli/pulumi_destroy" >}}):

```bash
$ pulumi destroy
```

## Learn more

Congratulations! You're now well on your way to managing a production-grade serverless application on Azure with Pulumi --- and there's lots more you can do from here:

* Discover more architecture templates in [Templates &rarr;]({{< relref "/templates" >}})
* Dive into the Azure Native package by exploring the [API docs in the Registry &rarr;]({{< relref "/registry/packages/azure-native" >}})
* Expand your understanding of how Pulumi works in [Pulumi Learn &rarr;]({{< relref "/learn" >}})

> * Read up on the latest new features [in the Pulumi Blog &rarr;](/blog/tag/serverless)

Reviewer 2: should this go to serverless or azure? what do we think people are going to be interested in? @cnunciato

Reviewer: Probably Azure, since it's more likely to spark interest. (If you're an Azure person, you'll probably be more interested in seeing more of what you can do with Azure than what Pulumi can do that qualifies as "serverless".)

```suggestion
* Read up on the latest new Azure features [in the Pulumi Blog &rarr;](/blog/tag/azure)
```
